---
layout: post
title: "Heritage"
date: 2009-07-29 23:04
author: admin
comments: true
categories: [Rants, Strange]
tags: []
---
I am a mere few hours away, from setting foot into the house that bore the last 3 generations of my family. In other words; I shall be going to the beautiful city that is Cairo this evening.

<!--more-->

My home away from home, or perhaps my home full stop. I am always asked whether I consider myself more British or Egyptian. Another favourite is: "so if Egypt &amp; England were in the world cup final..."

The answer is never an easy one...

Though I am fluent in Arabic, I cannot read and write very well.. (think 4/5 year-old). Therefore from a language perspective, despite my shocking spelling, I express myself in English miles better. I put this down to the fact that I was born here (London, England).
Which brings me on to another point. I was born here... Ok, so it's actually the same point - but nonetheless. I have been brought up through Britain's media, its politics and its education system. My thinking and interacting with others is quintessentially British.. Well, it should be right?

Enter mother and father. Egyptian the both, born and raised in Cairo by their respective Egyptian parents. Now they live in England. They both consider themselves Egyptian because "we were brought up there". I personally consider them Egyptian because of their often amusing English accent...
But in all seriousness, if I was to use the same argument that they do, I am British. Try telling them that.

I was raised here, but I still ate traditional Egyptian food, I still spoke Arabic at home and I still get called a donkey &amp; beaten with with a wooden spoon or nearest available slipper when I misbehave.
You know you're Egyptian when...

I guess I'm (rather badly) trying to illustrate that I was brought up with two worlds. That at home, and that at school. Both insanely different and very much opposites in many cases. Think a very watered down version of Spock's dilemma (knew I could get a trekkie reference in!).

I haven't chosen. I guess I never will. When I'm in England I say I'm Egyptian and when I'm in Egypt I say I'm British. If I absolutely had to make a choice between the two? Ever so slightly more British because I can read and write English better. It would always be followed it with, "but i have Egyptian heritage though".
