---
layout: post
title: "Finales"
date: 2011-11-21 22:55
author: admin
comments: true
categories: [Uncategorized]
tags: []
---
To this day I remember the last episode of the tv series 'friends'. I remember where I was, what I was wearing, the cup of tea that went cold.. But the most poignant memory is the feeling of sadness that something was coming to an end. Something I enjoyed immensely. 

It's one of the worst things in the world to sense your stomach become hollow and have your brain tell you "now what do we do?" It's over. You can't look forward to the next instalment... Toy story 3 was a perfect example of this. And, recently, I guess the final Harry Potter.. Though the last book itself niggled me for days.

There are some very obvious things that don't fall under this umbrella.. the sound of bagpipes for example... But things like my favourite songs or the NBA play-off finals don't really have that kind of effect either. My stomach certainly doesn't feel  hollow after the last slice of pizza...

I suppose the difference is the emotion you invest in something over a period of time... Or rather, the journey it takes you on. Friends made me laugh till I cried and Toy Story makes me feel like it's actually acceptable to have toys as I get older.. ... 
But why do I wish something like the BBC's Luther would go on forever and Jimi Hendrix  doesn't hang in repeat on my iPod? I enjoy both just as much.

The answer is Imagination. And not just mine.
If I think about it, the things I mention are all fictional to some extent.. Worlds that exist in the minds of others. And while to some degree, songs can be like that, they're only snapshots of people's emotions. The mediums of regular tv series and books show you so much more about the worlds/minds of their creators. Personally, I find that fascinating.

Books in particular let you visualise that using your OWN imagination. What I find a rather beautiful thought is that no book can be read the same way by two people.... Until the film comes out and everyone has the same image of Albus Dumbledore stuck in their heads! Read "The fountainhead" by Ayn Rand for a great example of vision and inspiration... And how quite frankly  nobody really understands it. Not properly.

Point is when these things end, it's a little bit like saying goodbye to an old friend for good. When actually, it's just someone or something that somebody else created. I guess then that the mark of a great story is not how it starts, but what happens by the time you get to the end. And, as such, that ending will never be as satisfying as what got you there.
